EXPERIMENT NO 1
1. Write a query to create a table employee with empno, ename, designation, and salary.
2. Write a query to display the column name and datatype of the table employee.
3. Write a query for create a from an existing table with all the fields
4. Write a query for create a from an existing table with selected fields
5. Write a query for create a new table from an existing table without any record:
ALTER & MODIFICATION ON TABLE
6. Write a Query to Alter the column EMPNO NUMBER (4) TO EMPNO NUMBER
7. (6).
8. Write a Query to Alter the table employee with multiple columns (EMPNO,
9. ENAME.)
10. Write a query to add a new column in to employee
11. Write a query to add multiple columns in to employee
12. Write a query to drop a column from an existing table employee
REMOVE / DROP
13. Write a query to drop a column from an existing table employee
14. Write a query to drop multiple columns from employee
15. Write a query to rename table emp to employee
CONSTRAINTS USING TABLE CREATION
16. Write a query to create primary constraints with column level
17. Write a query to create primary constraints with column level with naming Convention
18. Write a query to create primary constraints with table level with naming convention
19. Write a query to create primary constraints with alter command
20. Write a query to create foreign key constraints with column level
21. Write a query to create foreign key constraints with Table level
22. Write a query to create foreign key constraints with Table level with alter command.
23. Write a query to create Check constraints with column level
24. Write a query to create Check constraints with table level
25. Write a query to create Check constraints with table level using alter command.
26. Write a query to create unique constraints with table level and column level
27. Write a query to create NULL and Not Null constraints with column level
28. Write a query to disable and enable the constraints
29. Write a query to insert the records in to employee using substitution method.
30. Write a query to update the records from employee.
31. Write a query to update multiple records from employee
32. Write a query to delete records from employee.
33. Write a query to implement the Save Point and Rollback.
EXPERIMENT NO 2
34. Write a query to retrieve name and address of all employees who work for the ‘Research’
department.
35. Write a query to retrieve employee’s first and last name and first and last name of his or her
immediate supervisor.
36. Write a query to retrieve list of employees and the projects they are working on, ordered by
department and with in each department, ordered alphabetically by last name, first name.
37. For every project located in ‘Stafford’, list the project number, the controlling department
number and the department manager’s last name, birth date.
38. Find the sum of the salaries of all employees, the maximum salary, the minimum salary and
the average salary.
39. Find the sum of the salaries of all employees, the maximum salary, the minimum salary and
the average salary of all employees of the ‘Research’ department.
40. Count the number of employees working in the ‘Research’ department.
41. For each department, retrieve the department number, the number of employees in the
department and their average salary.
42. For each project, retrieve the project number, Project name and the number of employees who
work on that project.
43. For each project on which more than two employees work, retrieve the project number, project
name and the number of employees who work on the project.
44. For each project, retrieve the project number, Project name and the number of employees from
department 5 who work on the project.
45. Write a nested query to retrieve the name of each employee who has a dependent with the same
first name and same sex as the employee.
58 | DBMS LAB MANUAL – DR. D. SENTHIL KUMAR (AP/CSE) AU-BITCAMPUS
46. Write a query to show resulting salaries if every employee working on ‘ProductX’ project is
given a 10 percent raise.
47. For each department that has more than two employees, retrieve the department number and
the number of its employees who are making more than or equal to $30,000.
48. Write a nested query to retrieve the names of employees who have no dependents.
49. Write a nested query to list the names of managers who have at least one dependent.
50. Write a nested query to retrieve the names of all employees who have two or more dependents
51. Write a nested query to retrieve the SSNs of all employees who work on project number 1, 2
or 3.
52. Write a nested query to retrieve the names of all employees whose salary is greater than the
salary of all the employees in department 5.
EXPERIMENT NO 3
53. Create a view all_customers consisting branches and their customers.
54. Select all the customers from all_customers view.
55. Create a view Perryridge_customers consisting customers of Perryridge branch using
all_customers view.
56. Following is the sequence query creating sequence in ascending order.
57. Following is the sequence query creating sequence in descending order.
58. How to create and drop a synonym in Oracle.
EXPERIMENT NO 4
59. Write PL/SQL code to UPDATE values in created tables by using Implicit Cursors.
60. Write PL/SQL code to display Employee details using Explicit Cursors.
61. Write PL/SQL code in Cursor to display employee names and salary.
62. Write PL/SQL Programs in Cursors using two cursors at a time.
63. Write PL/SQL Programs in Cursors using Loops.
64. To write a Cursor to display the list of employees who are Working as a Managers or Analyst.
65. Write pl/sql code in cursor by using while loop.

EXPERIMENT NO 5
66. Write PL/SQL code in Procedure to find Reverse number
67. Write PL/SQL code in Procedure to find Factorial of a given number by using call procedure.
68. Write a Procedure to check the given number is prime or not by using call procedure.
69. Write a procedure to retrieve the salary of a particular employee
70. Write a procedure to work with Arthimetic operations.
Functions:
71. Write a Function to check the given number is prime or not.
72. Write pl./sql code in Function for Factorialnumber.
EXPERIMENT NO 6 & 7
Error handling and Exception
73. Write a PL/SQL block to handle the following BUILT-IN EXCEPTIONS.
Triggers
74. Write pl/sql code for before insert Trigger program
75. Write pl/sql code for After inser Trigger
76. Write pl/sql code for Before Update statement Trigger
77. Write pl/sql code for each row Before update Trigger.
78. Write pl/sql code for If Statement Trigger.
79. Write pl/sql code in Trigger not to accept the existing Empno (Unique no)
80. Write pl/sql code using Trigger to salary with more than old salary.
EXPERIMENT NO 8
81. 1. Consider the database for a college and design an ER diagram. Write the query for the
following.
(i) Create the tables:
Student (sid, sname, sex, dob,dno)
Department (dno, dname)
Faculty (F_id, fname, designation, salary,dno)
Course (cid, cname, credits,dno)
Register (sid,cid,sem )
Teaching (f_id,cid,sem)
Hostel(hid,hname,seats,)

(ii) Include the necessary constraints NOT NULL, DEFAULT, CHECK, and PRIMARY KEY,
UNIQUE.
(iii)Create a database college
(iv) Use college as the current database
(v) Display all the tables in college database
(vi) Describe the structure of all tables
(vii) Modify the student table to add a new field ‘grade’
82. Consider the database for a banking enterprise. Write the queries for the below questions.
(i) Create the following tables
Table Attributes
customer cid, cname, loc, sex, dob
Bank_brn bcode, bloc, bsate
Deposit Dacno, dtype, ddate, damt
Loan Lacno, ltype, ldate, lamt
Accounts_in Bcode, cid
depositor cid, dacno
borrower cid, lacno
(ii) Include necessary constraints.
(iii) Tables are created under the database ‘bank’
(iv) Display all the tables in bank database
(v) Describe the structure of all tables
(vi) Delete tables
EXPERIMENT NO 10
 Passport Automation System.
 Book Bank
 Exam Registration
 Stock Maintenance System.
 Online Course Reservation System
 E-Ticketing
 Software Personnel Management System
 Credit Card Processing
 E-Book Management System
 Recruitment System
 Foreign Trading System
 Conference Management System
 BPO Management System
 Library Management System
 Student Information System
